Welcome to Plural's podcast. You are
about to be blessed [music]
by the teaching ministry of Pastor
Aking.
It is going to be an enlightening
[music] time in God's word, renewing
your mind and transforming your life to
fulfill [music]
God's purpose. We pray for you that you
are established in all the truths of
God's word [music] taught to be. Let's
get right into it.
All right, welcome back to the Plural's
podcast. This is your daily dose of
God's word transforming you to fulfill
God's purpose for your life. And we're
looking at the subject matter,
preservation in the newness of life.
Recall that we're studying on the
newness of life as a whole because we
realized that the only way we can
fulfill God's purpose is by growing in
the reality of who we are and what we
have in Christ, which can be summatively
called the newness of life. Who we are
and what we have can be summatively
called the newness of life. So, because
we realized that, then it became
necessary for us to start to see all the
realities in newness of life and how we
can grow in them, how we can effect
them, how we can be stronger in them.
Now, we looked at healing first because
of the importance of healing in itself,
but because we're also starting from
outside in. When we're speaking of the
things available to us in the newness of
life, we're starting from the things
external before coming to the things
within us. So, we asked the question,
what is this life all about? And we
arrived at the conclusion that this life
is that which God intended at the
beginning that will be fully effected at
the end. But, there are certain things
in this life that are not available to
be effected today. So, they're available
in the life, they're possible in that
life, but they're not to be effected
today as a matter of God's plan because
of his redemptive mission in this age.
And we looked at all the texts on that.
Second Timothy chapter 1 9 down was we
looked at 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and
all those texts that show us, yes, all
of this is available, but this will not
be effected until this point, because
you have a mission to fulfill.
You must put all things on nice feet.
You must run until you put all things on
his feet. Then, the last enemy that will
be defeated will be dead. So, when we
have fulfilled the mission, then it
comes to effect the final phase of his
plan in this age. Now, with that said in
our study, we proceeded from that to
look at If mortality is not available to
our body and incorruption is not
available to matter yet, what is
available to our body? And we have
answered healing is available. But then,
what is available to the cosmos? But,
more importantly, because it's not about
the cosmos in itself, the question
should be what is available to us
relative to the cosmos? What is
available to man? Let me put it more
accurately. And this is so important,
because you will see that when we speak
on preservation in the newness of life,
the focus is really about man. And
sometimes, unfortunately, other things
may be affected, which is still not
God's best, but within what is available
to us today, there is preservation in
the newness of life that we can believe
for. Okay, let me just mention something
that I think I mentioned in the
very first episode on preservation in
newness of life. There are those who
always feel the concern when you speak
on natural benefits of redemption or the
new creation or the newness of life that
all attention is being taken away from
the Lord Jesus to this.
It'd be very strange, you know, that
heart may not fully represent the heart
of the Lord, and we have to be awesome.
There are times when those statements
are made and they reflect the concern of
the Lord about people treating the
things he gives as idols. And he said
that about a generation seeking signs
and wonders. He says, "They are an
adulterous generation." Notwithstanding,
people who talk like that may fall into
the trap, if not careful, and if not in
the measure that is is to be done in and
not with the right heart. They fall into
the trap of the Pharisees where they
become so unmindful of the need to be
compassionate about the situation people
are going through and just concerned
about this alignment with a position
that they must make and how they must
look. And we see an instance of that in
Mark 3 and also another instance in Luke
13. Let's ensure that when we do speak
on supernatural benefits as healing and
be careful not to be quick to cast
aspersions that it is an idolatrous
concern because it is not. It is in the
measure in which is spoken of in God's
word. No doubt the focus of God's word
is on God himself and his purpose, our
fellowship within our walk with him,
something that we have spoken of on
already and would be the bulk of
everything we ever speak about.
No, but what is available to us must be
spoken of in its own proportion for the
sake of that very walk we are to have
with God and in his purpose as well.
Having said that, back to what we are
looking at, what is available to us
relative to the state of the cosmos
today, preservation is available and
that's the case we have been making. We
saw that the same spirit that effects
immortality in our bodies is the same
spirit that effects healing, but it's
also that same spirit that effects the
deliverance of the
cosmos of the creation from corruption
as well. So, what can the power of that
spirit do relative to us in this cosmos?
Ordinarily, nothing will be done today
about corruption in the world, but when
the sick state of the world does arise,
something could be done for the
preservation of man and we can minister
in faith about it. We saw the Lord do
that in Matthew chapter 8, but we're not
yet talking about I'm just trying to lay
the ground for the different instance
that show us that something can be done
about the sick state of this world. We
have looked at Matthew 8, we have looked
at Matthew 14.
Then we could look at Matthew 21, the
fig tree.
Now, this one doesn't seem to have a
direct implication on preserving man,
but it does show authority over the
cosmos itself, which is the point
I'm trying to draw out of it here. In
Matthew chapter 21, you could look at
verse 18. Now, in the morning, as he
returned to the city, he was hungry. And
seeing a fig tree by the road, he came
to it and found nothing on it but
leaves. And said to it, "Let no fruit
grow on you ever again." Immediately,
the fig tree withered away. So, there's
arguments made that seeing the tree in
the state it was, leaves being on it,
there's the expectation, you know, you
could have shed your leaves then when I
expect any fruits to be on you, but now
you have not shed your leaves. probably
your in season, you are bringing out the
leaves, so we should be expecting that
fruit should be on you. And it's also it
makes a lot of sense in just the context
of why would the Lord go there. So, in
not finding fruits on it raises the
question of the
the tree being an unfruitful tree, not
serving its purpose, reflecting the sick
state of the cosmos.
Of course, there are different arguments
like, "Oh, what if I healed the tree to
bear fruits rather than cursed the tree
to die?" And whichever one is, you know,
the tree withering from its roots can
lead to the arguments of is it going to
be renewed and brought back? But let's
leave all of that. There's There's also
other theological questions that can
arise there, but let's stick with the
fact that it's a simple narrative. And
what we see is that there's authority by
faith with words
over the cosmos, over matter, over
creation. So, he spoke and said, "Let no
fruit grow on you ever again."
Immediately, the fig tree withered away.
Of course, Matthew records immediately.
When we read Mark's account, he said it
happened by the next day they saw that
it had begun to wither. So, the
disciples saw it and they marveled
saying, "How how the fig tree wither
away so soon?
>> [snorts]
>> And the Lord answered, "I surely I say
to you, if you have faith." So, we are
coming to how is this done, but we'll
leave with that for later. If you have
faith and no doubt, you will not only do
what's done to the to the fig tree, but
also say to this mountain, "Be removed
and be cast in the sea." And it will be
done. What whatever you ask in prayer,
believe it, you will receive. Let's look
at Mark's account very quickly. So, this
just an account telling us that there is
authority over the cosmos or creation.
In Mark's accounts,
the events with the fig tree happened
way earlier in verse 12 of chap- Mark
11. Now, the next day when they had come
out of Bethany, he was hungry and seeing
from afar fig tree having leaves, he
went to see if perhaps he would find
something on it.
And he came to it and he found nothing
but leaves,
for it was not the season for figs. And
in response, Jesus said to it, "Let no
one eat fruit from you ever again." And
his disciples heard it. By the time you
get to verse 20, in the morning as they
passed by, they saw the fig tree dried
up from the root.
Peter remembering said to him, "Rabbi,
look, the fig tree which you cursed has
withered away." And Jesus answered and
said, "Have faith in God, for I surely I
say to you, so I shall say to this
mountain, so again, using an example
from the cosmos, if you say to this
mountain, 'Be removed and be cast into
the sea,' and does not doubt in his
heart, but believes that the things
which he says shall come to pass, shall
be done or shall come to pass, it will
have whatsoever he says. All right, 24
again, therefore I say to you, whatever
things you ask when you pray, believe
you receive them and you will have them.
There is no doubt that in the life of
the Lord is exemplifying the authority
over the cosmos, over creation,
exercised by faith, exercised with
words.
Let's look at another example. This case
is with Paul. So, Paul was
in custody, was Should we say it was
arrest
let's just say he's in custody. Both of
them would work, but he wasn't already
sentenced yet. So, was arrested, he was
to be tried, so and was being
transported. In Acts 27, as we're about
to begin the journey, Paul knows by the
spirits that something is going to go
wrong. So, in Acts 27 and in verse 10 he
said, "Men, I perceive that this voyage
will end with disaster and much loss.
This is evil sickness or um disease in
the cosmos. So, I perceive this voyage
will end with disaster and much loss,
not only of the cargo and ship, but also
of our lives." So, he makes this
distinction between it not only
affecting our traveling, but also their
lives. At this point he said, "I
perceive." So, we might say manner in
which Paul received the knowing of this
information was not as accurate. But
then, later on Paul is going to know yet
again by the spirit, but this time
around in a dream that they were going
to be saved, that nothing was going to
go wrong with their lives. And this is
in verse 21. "After a long abstinence or
fasting from food, then Paul stood in
the midst of them and said, 'Men, you
should have listened to me and not have
sailed from Crete and incurred this
disaster and loss. So, things were
already going bad at this time. And now
I urge you to take heart, for there will
be no loss of life among you, but only
of the ship.
For there stood by me this night an
angel of the Lord to whom I belong and
who knew myself saying, 'Do not be
afraid, Paul. You must be brought before
Caesar and indeed God has granted you
all those who sail with you. Therefore,
take heart, men, for I believe God that
to be just as it was told me.
However, we must run aground on a
certain island.' So, he's predicting
everything else will be destroyed. They
are going to They are going to survive.
They are going to be on an island. And
this is an instance of preservation even
though the cosmos was getting sick.
And they should have avoided it. So, you
can see preservation can happen by the
leading of the spirit.
And preservation can yet happen even
when the cosmos itself has already
become sick. So, their life was
preserved, but the destruction still
happened.
One more text I want to show us and that
will be Matthew chapter 26. This is when
the Lord was going to be crucified. He
had prayed and renewed conviction that
he has to go on to do the redemptive
work for there is no other way. Of
course, in his humanity it's not an
experience one would want to go through.
Now, in Matthew chapter 26 when the
disciples were trying to attack or
defend themselves, we are not sure which
one. And they took the sword and struck
someone. In Matthew 26:52, the Lord
responded and said, "Put your sword in
its place. For all who take the sword
will perish by the sword. Or do you
think that I cannot now pray to my
father and he will provide me with more
than 12 legions of angels? How would
then could the scriptures be fulfilled
that it must happen thus?" So, clearly
we are seeing the Lord saying, "Yeah,
they have come with their spears and
their sword. They are coming against us
to get us, but I can very well be
preserved in this situation." And he
says it can happen via the ministry of
angels. This account surely brings to
mind the instance of a particular king
sending his soldiers against Elisha. And
you know, Elisha's assistant panicking
and he responds to him and tell him that
those who are with us are more than
those against us.
Pray that his eyes was opened and then
he sees that they have the ministry of
angels around them. And it's on this
premise that as we wrap up this section,
I also take us to the temptation of the
Lord and the words of the enemy
when he was trying to get him to walk in
the flesh to do things out of a wrong
motive. So, he told him in Matthew
chapter 5:4 and 5, he says, "If you are
the son of God, why don't you before
took him to the
hill of the temple?" And verse 6, it
says, "If you are the son of God, throw
yourself down, for it is written, he
shall give his angels charge over you."
The problem is not the ability for this
to be done would be walking in the flesh
to get something done. And he says, "He
will give his angels charge over you,
and in their hands they shall bear you
up, lest you dash your feet against a
stone." And he said, "This is written,
you shall not tempt the Lord your God."
But we can see the sentiment of the
ministry of angels bringing about
preservation, safety,
deliverance,
security in that text, Matthew 4, as
much as in Matthew 26. And we'll start
to look at some the Old Testament text
on this matter as well. But there is no
doubt running into the New Testament
text that there is such a thing as
preservation available by God's power.
And we can rightly say available in the
known as of life. We'll wrap it up there
for now. Thank you. See you on the next
one, fulfill God's purpose.
We trust you are blessed by [music]
today's episode.
Do stay in faith about all you've heard
to walk in it.
To learn more of God's word,
>> [music]
>> visit pleroma.org.
You will find answers to your questions
[music]
on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it.
Whilst on our website,
>> [music]
>> don't forget to join the pleroma
community channel on WhatsApp, and
follow us on all our social media
handles at pleroma_org. [music]
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.